README.md, before:

# Laravel Shaka Packager

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/foxws/laravel-shaka.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/foxws/laravel-shaka)
[![GitHub Tests Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/foxws/laravel-shaka/run-tests.yml?branch=main&label=tests&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/foxws/laravel-shaka/actions?query=workflow%3Arun-tests+branch%3Amain)
[![GitHub Code Style Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/foxws/laravel-shaka/fix-php-code-style-issues.yml?branch=main&label=code%20style&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/foxws/laravel-shaka/actions?query=workflow%3A"Fix+PHP+code+style+issues"+branch%3Amain)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/foxws/laravel-shaka.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/foxws/laravel-shaka)

A Laravel integration for Google's Shaka Packager, enabling you to create adaptive streaming content (DASH, HLS) with a fluent, Laravel-style API.

```php
use Foxws\Shaka\Facades\Shaka;

$result = Shaka::fromDisk('s3')
    ->open('videos/input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('videos/input.mp4', 'video_1080p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '5000000'])
    ->addVideoStream('videos/input.mp4', 'video_720p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '3000000'])
    ->addAudioStream('videos/input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withMpdOutput('manifest.mpd')
    ->withSegmentDuration(6)
    ->export();
```

## Features

- 🎬 **Fluent API** - Laravel-style chainable methods
- 📁 **Multiple Disks** - Works with local, S3, and custom filesystems
- 🎯 **Adaptive Bitrate** - Create multi-quality streams easily
- 🔒 **Encryption & DRM** - Built-in support for content protection
- 📺 **DASH & HLS** - Support for both streaming protocols
- 🧪 **Testable** - Clean architecture with mockable components
- 📝 **Type-Safe** - Full PHP 8.1+ type declarations

## Documentation

📚 **[Full Documentation](docs/README.md)**

- [Quick Reference](docs/QUICK_REFERENCE.md) - Complete API reference
- [Architecture Overview](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - Understanding the design
- [Configuration](docs/CONFIGURATION.md) - Configuring the package

## Requirements

- PHP 8.1 or higher
- Laravel 10.x or 11.x or higher
- Shaka Packager binary installed on your system

## Installation

Install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require foxws/laravel-shaka
```

Publish the config file:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="shaka-config"
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
php artisan shaka:verify
```

## Quick Start

### Basic Usage

```php
use Foxws\Shaka\Facades\Shaka;

$result = Shaka::open('input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video.mp4')
    ->addAudioStream('input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withMpdOutput('manifest.mpd')
    ->export();
```

### Adaptive Bitrate Streaming

```php
$result = Shaka::open('input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video_1080p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '5000000'])
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video_720p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '3000000'])
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video_480p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '1500000'])
    ->addAudioStream('input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withMpdOutput('manifest.mpd')
    ->withSegmentDuration(6)
    ->export();
```

### Working with Different Disks

```php
$result = Shaka::fromDisk('s3')
    ->open('videos/input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('videos/input.mp4', 'video.mp4')
    ->addAudioStream('videos/input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withMpdOutput('manifest.mpd')
    ->export();
```

### HLS with Encryption

```php
// For browser-compatible AES-128 encryption, use .ts segments (not .mp4)
// fMP4 segments use SAMPLE-AES-CTR which is NOT supported by browsers/HLS.js
$result = Shaka::open('input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video.ts')  // Use .ts for encryption
    ->addAudioStream('input.mp4', 'audio.ts')  // Use .ts for encryption
    ->withHlsMasterPlaylist('master.m3u8')
    ->withEncryption([
        'keys' => 'label=:key_id=abc:key=def',
        'hls_key_uri' => 'encryption.key',
        // Do NOT set protection_scheme for HLS - it forces SAMPLE-AES which browsers don't support
    ])
    ->export();

// For unencrypted streams, .mp4 (fMP4) offers better performance
$result = Shaka::open('input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video.mp4')  // .mp4 OK without encryption
    ->addAudioStream('input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withHlsMasterPlaylist('master.m3u8')
    ->export();
```

### Dynamic URL Resolvers (HLS & DASH)

Customize how URLs are generated for your streaming manifests:

**HLS Example:**
```php
use Foxws\Shaka\Http\DynamicHLSPlaylist;

$playlist = (new DynamicHLSPlaylist('videos'))
    ->setKeyUrlResolver(fn ($key) => route('video.key', ['key' => $key]))
    ->setMediaUrlResolver(fn ($file) => Storage::disk('cdn')->url($file))
    ->setPlaylistUrlResolver(fn ($pl) => route('video.playlist', ['playlist' => $pl]))
    ->open('master.m3u8');

return $playlist->toResponse($request);
```

**DASH Example:**
```php
use Foxws\Shaka\Http\DynamicDASHManifest;

$manifest = (new DynamicDASHManifest('videos'))
    ->setMediaUrlResolver(fn ($file) => Storage::disk('cdn')->url($file))
    ->setInitUrlResolver(fn ($file) => Storage::disk('cdn')->url("init/{$file}"))
    ->open('manifest.mpd');

return $manifest->toResponse($request);
```

**Use cases for URL resolvers:**
- 🔐 Generate signed URLs for secure content delivery
- 🌐 Integrate with CDN services
- 🏢 Support multi-tenant applications
- 🔄 Implement dynamic key rotation
- 📊 Track media access patterns

See [URL Resolver Examples](examples/UrlResolverExamples.php) and [Documentation](docs/URL_RESOLVERS.md) for more details.

## Available Methods

### Disk Management

- `fromDisk(string $disk)` - Set the disk to use
- `openFromDisk(string $disk, $paths)` - Set disk and open files in one call

### Dynamic URL Resolvers

**DynamicHLSPlaylist:**
- `new DynamicHLSPlaylist(?string $disk)` - Create HLS playlist processor
- `open(string $path)` - Open a playlist file
- `setKeyUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for encryption key URLs
- `setMediaUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for media segment URLs
- `setPlaylistUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for sub-playlist URLs
- `get()` - Get processed playlist content
- `all()` - Get all processed playlists (master + segments)
- `toResponse($request)` - Return as HTTP response

**DynamicDASHManifest:**
- `new DynamicDASHManifest(?string $disk)` - Create DASH manifest processor
- `open(string $path)` - Open a manifest file
- `setMediaUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for media segment URLs
- `setInitUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for initialization segment URLs
- `get()` - Get processed manifest content
- `toResponse($request)` - Return as HTTP response

### Stream Configuration

- `addVideoStream(string $input, string $output, array $options = [])` - Add video stream
- `addAudioStream(string $input, string $output, array $options = [])` - Add audio stream
- `addStream(array $stream)` - Add custom stream

### Output Configuration

- `withMpdOutput(string $path)` - Set DASH manifest output
- `withHlsMasterPlaylist(string $path)` - Set HLS master playlist output
- `withSegmentDuration(int $seconds)` - Set segment duration
- `withEncryption(array $config)` - Enable encryption

### Execution

- `export()` - Execute the packaging operation

See the [Quick Reference](docs/QUICK_REFERENCE.md) for complete API documentation.

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [francoism90](https://github.com/foxws)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Add acknowledgments section to README.md for inspiration sources

README.md, after:

# Laravel Shaka Packager

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/foxws/laravel-shaka.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/foxws/laravel-shaka)
[![GitHub Tests Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/foxws/laravel-shaka/run-tests.yml?branch=main&label=tests&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/foxws/laravel-shaka/actions?query=workflow%3Arun-tests+branch%3Amain)
[![GitHub Code Style Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/foxws/laravel-shaka/fix-php-code-style-issues.yml?branch=main&label=code%20style&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/foxws/laravel-shaka/actions?query=workflow%3A"Fix+PHP+code+style+issues"+branch%3Amain)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/foxws/laravel-shaka.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/foxws/laravel-shaka)

A Laravel integration for Google's Shaka Packager, enabling you to create adaptive streaming content (DASH, HLS) with a fluent, Laravel-style API.

```php
use Foxws\Shaka\Facades\Shaka;

$result = Shaka::fromDisk('s3')
    ->open('videos/input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('videos/input.mp4', 'video_1080p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '5000000'])
    ->addVideoStream('videos/input.mp4', 'video_720p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '3000000'])
    ->addAudioStream('videos/input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withMpdOutput('manifest.mpd')
    ->withSegmentDuration(6)
    ->export();
```

## Features

- 🎬 **Fluent API** - Laravel-style chainable methods
- 📁 **Multiple Disks** - Works with local, S3, and custom filesystems
- 🎯 **Adaptive Bitrate** - Create multi-quality streams easily
- 🔒 **Encryption & DRM** - Built-in support for content protection
- 📺 **DASH & HLS** - Support for both streaming protocols
- 🧪 **Testable** - Clean architecture with mockable components
- 📝 **Type-Safe** - Full PHP 8.1+ type declarations

## Documentation

📚 **[Full Documentation](docs/README.md)**

- [Quick Reference](docs/QUICK_REFERENCE.md) - Complete API reference
- [Architecture Overview](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - Understanding the design
- [Configuration](docs/CONFIGURATION.md) - Configuring the package

## Requirements

- PHP 8.1 or higher
- Laravel 10.x or 11.x or higher
- Shaka Packager binary installed on your system

## Installation

Install the package via composer:

```bash
composer require foxws/laravel-shaka
```

Publish the config file:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="shaka-config"
```

Verify the installation:

```bash
php artisan shaka:verify
```

## Quick Start

### Basic Usage

```php
use Foxws\Shaka\Facades\Shaka;

$result = Shaka::open('input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video.mp4')
    ->addAudioStream('input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withMpdOutput('manifest.mpd')
    ->export();
```

### Adaptive Bitrate Streaming

```php
$result = Shaka::open('input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video_1080p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '5000000'])
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video_720p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '3000000'])
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video_480p.mp4', ['bandwidth' => '1500000'])
    ->addAudioStream('input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withMpdOutput('manifest.mpd')
    ->withSegmentDuration(6)
    ->export();
```

### Working with Different Disks

```php
$result = Shaka::fromDisk('s3')
    ->open('videos/input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('videos/input.mp4', 'video.mp4')
    ->addAudioStream('videos/input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withMpdOutput('manifest.mpd')
    ->export();
```

### HLS with Encryption

```php
// For browser-compatible AES-128 encryption, use .ts segments (not .mp4)
// fMP4 segments use SAMPLE-AES-CTR which is NOT supported by browsers/HLS.js
$result = Shaka::open('input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video.ts')  // Use .ts for encryption
    ->addAudioStream('input.mp4', 'audio.ts')  // Use .ts for encryption
    ->withHlsMasterPlaylist('master.m3u8')
    ->withEncryption([
        'keys' => 'label=:key_id=abc:key=def',
        'hls_key_uri' => 'encryption.key',
        // Do NOT set protection_scheme for HLS - it forces SAMPLE-AES which browsers don't support
    ])
    ->export();

// For unencrypted streams, .mp4 (fMP4) offers better performance
$result = Shaka::open('input.mp4')
    ->addVideoStream('input.mp4', 'video.mp4')  // .mp4 OK without encryption
    ->addAudioStream('input.mp4', 'audio.mp4')
    ->withHlsMasterPlaylist('master.m3u8')
    ->export();
```

### Dynamic URL Resolvers (HLS & DASH)

Customize how URLs are generated for your streaming manifests:

**HLS Example:**
```php
use Foxws\Shaka\Http\DynamicHLSPlaylist;

$playlist = (new DynamicHLSPlaylist('videos'))
    ->setKeyUrlResolver(fn ($key) => route('video.key', ['key' => $key]))
    ->setMediaUrlResolver(fn ($file) => Storage::disk('cdn')->url($file))
    ->setPlaylistUrlResolver(fn ($pl) => route('video.playlist', ['playlist' => $pl]))
    ->open('master.m3u8');

return $playlist->toResponse($request);
```

**DASH Example:**
```php
use Foxws\Shaka\Http\DynamicDASHManifest;

$manifest = (new DynamicDASHManifest('videos'))
    ->setMediaUrlResolver(fn ($file) => Storage::disk('cdn')->url($file))
    ->setInitUrlResolver(fn ($file) => Storage::disk('cdn')->url("init/{$file}"))
    ->open('manifest.mpd');

return $manifest->toResponse($request);
```

**Use cases for URL resolvers:**
- 🔐 Generate signed URLs for secure content delivery
- 🌐 Integrate with CDN services
- 🏢 Support multi-tenant applications
- 🔄 Implement dynamic key rotation
- 📊 Track media access patterns

See [URL Resolver Examples](examples/UrlResolverExamples.php) and [Documentation](docs/URL_RESOLVERS.md) for more details.

## Available Methods

### Disk Management

- `fromDisk(string $disk)` - Set the disk to use
- `openFromDisk(string $disk, $paths)` - Set disk and open files in one call

### Dynamic URL Resolvers

**DynamicHLSPlaylist:**
- `new DynamicHLSPlaylist(?string $disk)` - Create HLS playlist processor
- `open(string $path)` - Open a playlist file
- `setKeyUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for encryption key URLs
- `setMediaUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for media segment URLs
- `setPlaylistUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for sub-playlist URLs
- `get()` - Get processed playlist content
- `all()` - Get all processed playlists (master + segments)
- `toResponse($request)` - Return as HTTP response

**DynamicDASHManifest:**
- `new DynamicDASHManifest(?string $disk)` - Create DASH manifest processor
- `open(string $path)` - Open a manifest file
- `setMediaUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for media segment URLs
- `setInitUrlResolver(callable $resolver)` - Set resolver for initialization segment URLs
- `get()` - Get processed manifest content
- `toResponse($request)` - Return as HTTP response

### Stream Configuration

- `addVideoStream(string $input, string $output, array $options = [])` - Add video stream
- `addAudioStream(string $input, string $output, array $options = [])` - Add audio stream
- `addStream(array $stream)` - Add custom stream

### Output Configuration

- `withMpdOutput(string $path)` - Set DASH manifest output
- `withHlsMasterPlaylist(string $path)` - Set HLS master playlist output
- `withSegmentDuration(int $seconds)` - Set segment duration
- `withEncryption(array $config)` - Enable encryption

### Execution

- `export()` - Execute the packaging operation

See the [Quick Reference](docs/QUICK_REFERENCE.md) for complete API documentation.

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Acknowledgments

This package was inspired by and learned from:
- [Laravel FFmpeg](https://github.com/protonemedia/laravel-ffmpeg) - Architecture patterns and Laravel integration approach.
- [quasarstream/shaka-php](https://github.com/quasarstream/shaka-php) - Shaka Packager wrapper implementation and command building logic.

Much of the existing logic and design patterns from these excellent packages helped shape this implementation. Many thanks to their authors and contributors!

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
